README.md, before:

# Super Cell Constructor
Tool for setting up molecular crystal super cells from CIF files

## Authors:
- [Pradip Si](https://www.valsson.info/members/pradip-si), University of North Texas

## Requirments
- ASE
- Mercury visualization
- Pymatgen
- Rdkit
- Open babel 
- NumPy

## Instructions 

### Generate a PBC supercell from a CIF file collected from the CCDC database
1. Save the CIF files for all polymorphs as PDB files using Mercury.
2. Add missing Hs if required ( `obabel file.pdb -O file.pdb -h`) and change the space group to original space group or "P1".
3. Select one as a template (preferably choose unit cell has one molecule and the PDB with a unique atom sequence) that will be used to match the atom sequence for other PDBs.
4. Use `ASE_cif_to_pymatgen_supercell_cif.py` to generate the supercell cif file for the template. (Change the space group to "P1" in the cif file if it shows error due to space group) 
5. Save the supercell cif file as a PDB file in Mercury.
6. Use `mapping_sequence.py` to match the atom sequence to the original PDB. (Ensure that the supercell PDB file saved from Mercury has a similar atom order as the single molecule PBD file, if not specially for highly symmetric molecule, manually create the list for `key_mapping` that matches the atom order).

### If the molecule is not selected as the template file, before proceeding to the step4

- First, reorder the PDB file to match the atom sequence with the template PDB file using `reorder-atoms.py`. (use `split_files.py` and `merged_reorder_pdbs.py` for unit cell having more that one molecule)
- It should pass the validation and also visualize to ensure that the connectivity is similar to the template.
- Use Mercury to convert the reordered PDB to cif.
- Return to the step4.


**Check the new file after each step to ensure that the code is doing the correct task**

## Acknowledgements
The development of this tool was supported by an DOE Early Career Award (BES Condensed Phase and Interfacial Molecular Science (CPIMS) / DE-SC0024283)

Commit message:

New atom ordering with ASE has been added

README.md, after:

# Super Cell Constructor
Tool for setting up molecular crystal super cells from CIF files

## Authors:
- [Pradip Si](https://www.valsson.info/members/pradip-si), University of North Texas

## Requirments
- ASE
- Pymatgen
- Rdkit
- Open babel 
- NumPy

## Instructions 

### Generate a PBC supercell from a CIF file collected from the CCDC database
1. Save the CIF files for all polymorphs as PDB and add missing Hs if required ( `obabel file.pdb -O file.pdb -h`) using openbabel and delete CONECT lines (sed -i '/^CONECT/d' input.pdb)
3. Select one as a template (preferably choose unit cell has one molecule and the PDB with a unique atom sequence) that will be used to match the atom sequence for other PDBs.
4. Use `ASE_cif_to_pymatgen_supercell_cif.py` to generate the supercell cif file for the template. (Change the space group to "P1" in the cif file if it shows error due to space group) 
5. Use atom_ordering.py to convert supercell.cif to supercell.pdb and regroup the atoms for each molecule 
6. Use `mapping_sequence.py` to match the atom sequence to the template PDB. 

### If the molecule is not selected as the template file, before proceeding to the step4

- First, reorder the PDB file to match the atom sequence with the template PDB file using `reorder-atoms.py`. (use `split_files.py` and `merged_reorder_pdbs.py` for unit cell having more that one molecule)
- It should pass the validation and also visualize to ensure that the connectivity is similar to the template.
- Convert reordered PDB to CIF using obabel and Change the space group to original space group or "P1" (sed -i "s/_space_group_name_H-M_alt 'P 1 21\/n 1'/_space_group_name_H-M_alt 'P 1'/" 1241886_reordered.cif)
- Return to the step4.


**Check the new file after each step to ensure that the code is doing the correct task**

## Acknowledgements
The development of this tool was supported by an DOE Early Career Award (BES Condensed Phase and Interfacial Molecular Science (CPIMS) / DE-SC0024283)
